What is HTML? What is CSS? What is Javascript?
HTML- Hypertext Markup Language
CSS - Cascading Styling Sheets
JS  -

What are the major parts of an HTTP request?
HTTP request method, the URI, and the protocol version 
HTTP request headers - used to communicate information about the client env
HTTP request body - contains the actual request being sent


What are the major parts of an HTTP response?
Protocol, status code, and its depreciation ( ex of status code is 404 error )
HTTP response headers - similair to request header, but contains info about server env
HTTP response body - rendered in the clients browser

How do you submit an HTTP POST request, with a "username" attribute set to "bob"? What if we wanted a GET request instead?
POST /username/bob HTTP/1.0
GET /username/bob HTTP/1.0

Why is it important for us, as web developers, to understand that HTTP is a "stateless" protocol?
On the internet, each time the user wants to change something, there is a request sent to the server and a response sent back from the server
with the changes. So the server does not track state over multipul requests.


If the internet is just HTTP requests/responses, why do we only use browsers to interface with web applications? Are there any other options?
The browser is the program that is able to render the html and css and whatever other code that the client recieves from a server response. Some other
tools are wget and HTTP Client(mac only)

What is MVC, and why is it important?
Model - persistence
View - rendering the visual aspect of an application
Controller - handles routing

MVC keeps code that does seperated and easy to maintain.

------------------------------------------------------------------


The below questions are about Sinatra:


At a high level, how are requests processed?
using the http verb as a method and the action inbetween a block as so ->
get '/' do
  erb :example
end

In the controller/action, what's the difference between rendering and redirecting?
rendering runs code for that particular URI whereas with a redirect it sends you to another route and runs that code instead

In the ERB view template, how do you show dynamic content?
<%= something.blah %>  -- to output something
<% if something %> -- to do some logic but not output it to the template, good for adding ruby conditions to front-end output

Given what you know about ERB templates, when do you suppose the ERB template is turned into HTML?
after the client sends request with their particular info, then the server renders the erb and sends html to client

What's the role of instance variables in Sinatra?
instance vars set in route handlers are directly accessible to templates





